Clauses docs (#353)
neo4j/cypher-builder: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/clauses/union.adoc

[[union]]
:description: This page describes how to create `UNION` clauses.
= Union

This page describes how to create link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/clauses/union/[`UNION`] clauses with the `Cypher.Union` class.

A union between multiple queries can be created by passing multiple clauses into a `Cypher.Union` class to combine them. Note that all clauses must be different instances, as Cypher Builder clauses cannot be reused:

[source, javascript]
----
const returnVar = new Cypher.Variable();
const n1 = new Cypher.Node();
const query1 = new Cypher.Match(new Cypher.Pattern(n1, { labels: ["Movie"] })).return([n1, returnVar]);
const n2 = new Cypher.Node();
const query2 = new Cypher.Match(new Cypher.Pattern(n2, { labels: ["Movie"] })).return([n2, returnVar]);
const n3 = new Cypher.Node();
const query3 = new Cypher.Match(new Cypher.Pattern(n3, { labels: ["Movie"] })).return([n3, returnVar]);

const unionQuery = new Cypher.Union(query1, query2, query3);
----

> This would generate the following `UNION` clause:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generates the following `UNION` clause:
```

[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (this0:Movie)
RETURN this0 AS var1
UNION
MATCH (this2:Movie)
RETURN this2 AS var1
UNION
MATCH (this3:Movie)
RETURN this3 AS var1
----

> Note that in this example, we are using the extra variable `returnVar` to make sure that all the queries return the same variable name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this example uses the extra variable `returnVar` to make sure that all the queries return the same variable name.
```

== Union all

> Unions by default remove duplicates, to keep all the results, you need to use the `.all` method to create a `UNION ALL` clause instead:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unions remove duplicates by default.
To keep all the results, use the `.all()` method to create a `UNION ALL` clause instead:
```

not 100% sure about the added parentheses

[source, javascript]
----
const returnVar = new Cypher.Variable();
const n1 = new Cypher.Node();
const query1 = new Cypher.Match(new Cypher.Pattern(n1, { labels: ["Movie"] })).return([n1, returnVar]);
const n2 = new Cypher.Node();
const query2 = new Cypher.Match(new Cypher.Pattern(n2, { labels: ["Movie"] })).return([n2, returnVar]);
const n3 = new Cypher.Node();
const query3 = new Cypher.Match(new Cypher.Pattern(n3, { labels: ["Movie"] })).return([n3, returnVar]);

const unionQuery = new Cypher.Union(query1, query2, query3).all();
----

> This would generate the following `UNION` clause:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generates the following `UNION` clause:
```
